So just like before,
we have a component on the page.
These are some pictures I took
in Hawaii a couple weeks ago.
We also have a version
of it on StackBlitz,
if you want to play with it there.
I am going to make some changes
here on the actual site.
So there's this gallery.
It has these pictures in it.
And there are some captions,
there's some dots down here
to go around that may or
may not be accessible.
And then there's a full screen.
So the full screen could
be a good candidate for
using the role of application.
A user has intentionally
gone into this mode.
It's a full screen slideshow.
They're not gonna be trying
to navigate by headings,
there's just less on the page right now.
So I think I could probably safely
toggle this application rule on and
off to make this work better in NVDA.
But I'm putting it Kind of
behind this setting that
gets going into full screen mode.
That's a toggle that I can kind of use
as a flag on whether I'm gonna use this
application role or not.
And so this is one instance where
I could probably get away with it.
So let's play with this
in NVDA real quick.
See what it looks like before
we do anything with it.
[SOUND]
>> Exercise 3, slide show exercise.
>> So we've got our gallery here.
I'm gonna tab.
>> And mark go full screen button and
your full screen.
>> There's our button,
can I get to any of the other buttons?
>> Look at the whole
previous slide button.
>> Yeah, I can.
>> Next slide button.
>> So I can use these.
>> Grammatic light in sharks' code where
the water reflections are broken up by
rocks and families.
>> So it is doing a pretty good
job of reading everything.
I actually want to check and
see if this is the completed one or not.
[LAUGH] But if I want to go
into full scope screen mode.
>> Go full screen button and
your full screen.
>> It tells me what that button does
even though it's an icon button,
it has a label on it that says enter
full screen mode and I can hit Enter.
>> Image slideshow.
>> And it sent me into the full slideshow,
or it opened it at least I don't know if
it moved my focus or
not kind of didn't sound like it.
So if I use the arrow key Keys.
>> Three of five.
>> It is-
>> Four of five, the beach palm trees and
canoes and wiki key.
>> It is actually advancing me.
>> Five of five sun sliding in late
in the afternoon at Kyluma beach.
>> Cool, seems to be working okay.
So let's go see what's going
on with our code right now.
So-
>> HTTPS.
>> I mostly want you to know that NVDA and
Windows testing is that easy.
Like that was so seamless.
I could just go NVDA, open it up
on my Mac, so that you can go and
test stuff and make sure it works.
So we saw the portal switcher.
That component is under our components
directory in slideshow.tsx.
So this version of this might even be
working better than it used to actually.
So we have a series of divs.
We have a list of elements.
These previous and
next buttons are not very accessible.
So this actually, I'm kind of wondering
if we were seeing the wrong version.
I'm gonna do a little check
here to see which one, yeah,
see that was the completed slideshow,
I wondered.
That's why that was working so
much better.
I'm actually going to change it back.
So, let's go look at NVDA again.
We'll go see what it looks like
before it has fixes in it.
And this is the deployed version also.
Let me see if I can open it up locally.
I thought that a link would work.
>> Slide show HTTP, HTML.
>> That's the one thing sometimes you have
to be able to access what you're doing.
I think it depends on what network I'm on,
or demo might be foiled.
>> Refresh, loading complete.
Slide show exercise.
>> Well, we know that this was working.
So, I am going to opt to show
you what code I used for this.
If I was better set up, we would
be able to test them back to back.
So, we really need to test
it in Windows to see, but
in a live demo, I'm a little bit caught.
So let's go over to our code.
Let's look at what this
completed version looks like.
It'll kind of help with time, anyways.
So this completed version,
it is under completed components.
So we've got some state variables.
We have what slide we're on,
managing that with react-use-state.
We've got a full-screen mode.
So that is that state
that I can hinge off of
how I want to make this
work in a screen reader.
I've got some logic here to increment or
decrement the slides in either direction.
Our buttons can do that.
They call a function to change
the current slide index.
Here's some code to enter full screen.
So when I enter full screen mode,
when the user clicks that button,
I can send focus into
the slideshow content.
And here's that ref again, another ref.
So the slideshow ref is on
the container with the images in it.
So I'm sending you
directly to that element.
And it has a time index of -1,
to just make sure that we
can catch that focus event.
The way that those images were
actually announcing was that it hasn't
already a live attribute of polite on it.
So whenever the content changes,
it was announcing that to you.
It has this aria-role
description of image slide show.
So you can't make up roles, you can't
can use aria-role description and
you can put whatever you want in there.
So if this is like a special type
of element, because this one
I'm switching between a role of
application in full full screen mode,
or a roll of region,
which is a little bit better than a dev.
It actually is a sectioning element, we
can label, but it's not super descriptive.
So I opted to put aria-role description
on here to say this widget,
this custom widget is an image slide show.
I could put a label that says that I
opted to use aria-role description.
And so
this application mode is what is allowing
me to actually go through those images.
Because if you're not in the right mode,
if my focus is on a div,
I'm not on an input or a button.
I'm gonna be in browse mode, so
those arrow keys are not actually going.
It's not gonna pass that
through to the browser.
It's going to try and
navigate me through the content.
And so the way that that slideshow was
actually working is that application mode,
but I don't want to leave
it on all the time.
So I toggle it.
So let's see what else?
We have a button like a reachable operable
button to close full screen mode.
We also have a way to escape.
So we come up here, we've got a key
handler, it handles multiple things.
So it's got the close on escape.
We've got arrow right and arrow left, or
arrow right and arrow down, increment and
arrow left and arrow up,
we're gonna decrement the slideshow.
But without the application role that I
wish I could show you a little bit better.
That just wouldn't work.
We would just get stuck cuz
we're in browse mode, right?
So I can kick the user automatically into
focus mode, but the application role, but
I'm being very selective with it to be,
I don't know, careful [LAUGH].
So let's see, what else were
there gems do we find in here?
So each image, we're iterating
over a list of images here.
That's the the slideshow content and
each image is marked up as a figure.
It has an aria labeled by of the image,
let's see the image alt text and
it has extra text for a caption.
So there's alt text and a caption.
The alt text is more specific,
like what's in the image.
The caption is more of a description
of it, almost marketing copy.
So they're slightly different.
So I included them both, and I used the
figure to announce what are you saying?
So you could kinda hear both
pieces of content for each image.
And so, that uses figure and
fig caption, the regular image tag.
There's also a counter in there.
So anytime this content is changing,
the screen reader is picking it up and
reading it aloud.
That's what that aria-live was doing.
And then we have our previous and
next buttons.
I think the original version, these were
divs or they didn't have labels on them.
And then our dots at the bottom.
I can't tell you how many slideshows I've
seen where the dots to control it are just
little divs that have
click events on them.
So those should be accessible too.
And these are buttons.
They're for their labels.
It says, go to slide, and then I'm using
the same iterable over the map of images.
It's like an array of objects, I think.
So I can count those and
use that same way of mapping over an array
of objects to give these little
dot buttons unique names.
So we've got our button.
So let's focus into it.
See if it works in a Mac environment.
I don't know how I'm missing.
This is the inaccessible version.
[LAUGH] I'm like,
why can't I click on this?
This version locally is the one
that's not accessible at all,
that you have to click on everything.
The version that we saw
in NVDA works better.
We can actually reach-
>> Image slideshow.
>> We can go into it.
>> One to five Sun streaks through the
clouds at a beach on the Oahu North Shore.
>> So it just announces everything.
>> Like in shark's Cove button go.
>> And that use a combination of factors,
so aria-live.
Changing the content and side of there,
yeah, we went over that.
So any questions on this one?
I know there's a lot of stuff
going on with this slideshow.
>> Would the aria-role description
work on web components so
I can custom describe all my components?
>> Potentially yep,
I think it's a good tool to reach for.
I would say, check the aria specification
for what it taught, like read up on it.
[LAUGH] Read the requirements for
it first, and
then yeah, see if it can work for
your use cases.
>> Another question.
If in your example the images were
delayed content, imagination, etc.
What would be the loading skeleton for
the screen reader?
>> Good question.
So if you're dynamically loading
content that takes a second,
you're fetching asynchronous data maybe.
You could have a loading state that,
if it has a loading spinner on it,
you could put an aria-live region on
the loading spinner that says loading.
And that way the screen reader user will
be notified that there's content loading.
It would be nice if you could centralize
that in your code base somehow,
because if you had a bunch of
components all loading asynchronously,
it would be like loading,
loading, loading.
So you kind of need announcement
manager almost like loading somehow.
One per page I guess would be probably
ideal because a bunch of loading
announcements might be kind of annoying.
But that's a great question about skeleton
loaders with performance if we can
announce that something's loading,
that'd be awesome.
I've seen on airline sites when
they'll have a loading page,
they'll send focus to the loader that will
announce it if it has alt text on it.
And then it'll load and
go to the next page or the next view.
So there's various techniques, but
it is great call out that we should
announce that stuff is loading.
>> For the [INAUDIBLE]
>> MVDA.
Ask for a license to parallels or
something, because MVDA itself is free.
And I know for a lot of developers, we
don't have Windows machines necessarily,
but you can get a VM.
There is also this thing
called Assistive Labs that
you can use to test in the cloud.
So that could be a service
you could look into.
I haven't really worked with it myself,
but I know a lot of people really love it.
And so it could be a good option for
your team.